---
title: Textmate or How to Lock Yourself
author: J.H. Chabran
date: 2010-03-11
category: Rant
tags:
  - Rants

---
I tried every code editor out there, every IDE I could find. Six or
seven years ago, I came to the conclusion that I do prefer simple
editors to them, mostly because I prefer a sharp tool than a clumsy
thing that tries to solve every problem. Oh sure, stuff like NetBeans or
Eclipse perform really well on Java, but I don't code with this
language, so let's skip directly to code editors.

{% end_excerpt %}

I spent something like two years with Emacs, it was great since I really
enjoy Lisp but I never really liked the way the you input the shortcuts,
making you holding Ctrl every couple of seconds to do something.
Moreover, the way you have to setup it, installing loads of libraries,
byte-compiling everything to have something still going fast was fun,
but those shitloads of stuff to install can drive you crazy when
something goes wrong with your install.

Vim had been my favorite code-editor for most of the time, maybe like
five years. It's clearly an awesome piece of software and was convinced
it would be my daily companion until something better come-out. Great
plugins, blazing fast editing, tons of colorschemes (yeah I like
changing those two or three times per week, mostly to visually break
routine).

And two years ago I got a MacBook, switched from daily C++ development
to Rails. Textmate always tickled me, and I finally gave it a try. I
loved it. The feeling of having something modern, clean and simple,
focusing on just what you need, providing new features like snippets,
that cmd -T shortcut to jump to any file, it was just so cool.

But recently, things felt wrong. I'm using it daily for two years now
and some details made me realize it's going nowhere, which is the point
in this blog post.

No window splitting at all Scripting it with your favorite language
basically means writing a script which will be called by your TM script
You can crash it just by opening any log file Colorschemes are so damn
cool nobody tries to create new ones ! But those are minor problems,
except for the splitting issue which I really miss. The main problem is
:

Textmate 1 is abandoned. We're all waiting for Textmate 2 to came out.
But it's taking ages, and sincerely like its author said, it just
another Duke Nukem Forever incarnation. I even doubt it will be
released, maybe because if it's not perfect, its author will be flamed
to oblivion by everyone, encouraging him to continue until its perfect.
Well, it may not be the case, but currently we have no clue of a
potential release date.

To me, Textmate is like a modern vim (ok, it's not open-source, it
sucks, but I can accept that if the tool is really awesome, which is
almost the case). No need to look at your keyboard and asking yourself
why the fuck it's ctrl-] to jump on a help subject, it's just simple.
Another cool one : moving around in Vim with jk keys is really nice, but
as I still have to use arrows to browse in my cmd history, I can't get
my fingers escaping from those arrows. For sure another shortcut must
exist to do that, there are many reasons to excuse this behavior, but
it's still not "great", it's just cool.

You'll probably think by reading this that I'm an unsatisfied programmer
who can't find its editor (which is true) but the point isnnt exactly
that. I found my editor of choice. I'm raging against it because :

Even if they won tons of money while selling Textmate, there's only one
developer. Come on, it's a code editor, it's serious business.
Communication around Textmate 2 is a nice example of worst practices.
Its author is trapped in that Babylon tower thingy, if he don't release
it, he'll be smashed by everyone (which is already the case) Its author
have to release something great or everyone will flame him, write awful
frustrated blog posts, Scotty will beam him up to pluto ... 

Learning an editor is an investment, we all know that, and feeling stuck because you
can't help its author to make it great, you can't do anything at all
'cause its closed-source. It feels like I bet and lost. I'm not blaming
its author for its license choices, I'm okay with that, people have to
eat, but that implies Macromates have duties too. A big one, update our
fucking editor for god's sake. Writing good stuff then disappearing is
the best fucking way to frustrate everyone. Moreover, I'm stucked. Emacs
or Vim don't satisfy me anymore, 20 years old software rocks for
stability, but there's some evolutions we had since I'd like to have in
my editor.

**Conclusion**: there must be a law against selling closed-source
editors, I killed thousands of kittens with the troll potential of this
blog post.

**Addendum**

*I finally threw away my never ending thirst of perfection. I'm happily
sticking to Vim
as it is and it does the job really well. Feel free to browse and fork
my [vimrc](https://github.com/jhchabran/vimfiles)*
